---
Acronym: FTP
Name: Trusted path/channels
active: true
derived: false
level: '1.10'
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: zxlstuaEk2zdriPvEdR8YS7F3ruwPs5Ewm56jRr5898=
---

# FTP Trusted path/channels

Families in this class provide requirements for a trusted communication path between users and the TSF, and for a trusted communication channel between the TSF and other trusted IT products. Trusted paths and channels have the following general characteristics:
- the communications path is constructed using internal and external communications channels (as appropriate for the component) that isolate an identified subset of TSF data and commands from the remainder of the TSF and user data;
- use of the communications path can be initiated by the user and/or the TSF (as appropriate for the component);
- the communications path is capable of providing assurance that the user is communicating with the correct TSF, and that the TSF is communicating with the correct user (as appropriate for the component).

In this paradigm, a trusted channel is a communication channel that can be initiated by either side of the channel and provides non-repudiation characteristics with respect to the identity of the sides of the channel. A trusted path provides a means for users to perform functions through an assured direct interaction with the TSF. Trusted path is usually desired for user actions such as initial identification and/or authentication but can also be desired at other times during a user's session. Trusted path exchanges can be initiated by a user or the TSF. User responses via the trusted path are guaranteed to be protected from modification by or disclosure to untrusted applications. Families describing the use of commonly used communication protocols used in the provision of trusted channels and paths are also given.

Figure 88 shows the decomposition of this class, it's families and components. Elements are not shown in the figure.
Annex M provides explanatory information for this class and should be consulted when using the components identified in this class.