---
Acronym: FDP
Name: User data protection
active: true
derived: false
level: 1.3
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: yh8ELYu3vRV6tBcWM-vJ1ObyH7eV-5mdRfctpu7rxTY=
---

# FDP User data protection

This class contains families specifying requirements related to protecting user data. FDP: User data protection is split into four groups of families (listed below) that address user data within a TOE, during import, export, and storage as well as security attributes directly related to user data. The families in this class are organized into four groups:
1. user data protection SFPs:
    - Access control policy (FDP_ACC);
    - Information flow control policy (FDP_IFC).
Components in these families permit the author of a PP, PP-Module, functional package or ST to name the user data protection SFPs and define the scope of control of the policy, necessary to address the security objectives. The names of these policies are meant to be used throughout the remainder of the functional components that have an operation that calls for an assignment or selection of an "access control SFP" or an "information flow control SFP". The rules that define the functionality of the named access control and information flow control SFPs will be defined in the Access control functions (FDP_ACF) and Information flow control functions (FDP_IFF) families (respectively).
2. forms of user data protection:
    - Access control functions (FDP_ACF);
    - Information flow control functions (FDP_IFF);
    - Internal TOE transfer (FDP_ITT);
    - Information Retention Control (FDP_IRC)
    - Residual information protection (FDP_RIP);
    - Rollback (FDP_ROL);
    - Stored data confidentiality (FDP_SDC);
    - Stored data integrity (FDP_SDI).
3. off-line storage, import and export:
    - Data authentication (FDP_DAU);
    - Export from the TOE (FDP_ETC);
    - Import from outside of the TOE (FDP_ITC).
Components in these families address the trustworthy transfer into or out of the TOE.
4. inter-TSF communication:
    - Inter-TSF user data confidentiality transfer protection (FDP_UCT);
    - Inter-TSF user data integrity transfer protection (FDP_UIT).
Components in these families address communication between the TSF of the TOE and another trusted IT product.

Figure 22 shows the decomposition of this class, it's families and components. Elements are not shown in the figure.
Annex F provides explanatory information for this class and should be consulted when using the components identified in this class.