---
Acronym: FPT
Name: Protection of the TSF
active: true
derived: false
level: 1.7
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: 1dmdTz8s14PhB2cECwwtRtXLmhHwpVFyJo0XWlOvsV4=
---

# FPT Protection of the TSF

This class contains families of functional requirements that relate to the integrity and management of the mechanisms that constitute the TSF and to the integrity of TSF data. Although families in this class appear to duplicate components in the FDP: User data protection class, and they can be implemented using the same mechanisms. However, FDP: User data protection focuses on user data protection, while FPT: Protection of the TSF focuses on TSF data protection.
In fact, Components from the FPT: Protection of the TSF class are necessary to provide requirements that the SFPs in the TOE cannot be tampered with or bypassed. From the point of view of this class, regarding to the TSF there are three significant elements:
1. the TSF's implementation, which executes and implements the mechanisms that enforce the SFRs;
2. the TSF's data, which are the administrative databases that guide the enforcement of the SFRs;
3. the external entities that the TSF may interact with in order to enforce the SFRs.

Figure 60 shows the decomposition of this class, it's families and components. Elements are not shown in the figure.
Annex J provides explanatory information for this class and should be consulted when using the components identified in this class.