---
Acronym: ACO
Name: Composition
active: true
applicationNotes: ''
derived: false
level: 1.8
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: HdfPTBZtOfZgJhKw05pDpxvfGoydM4bdT5wKv8U2x1Q=
---

# ACO Composition

The class ACO: Composition encompasses five families. These families specify assurance requirements that are designed to provide confidence that a composed TOE will operate securely when relying upon security functionality provided by previously evaluated software, firmware or hardware components. Composition involves taking two or more IT entities successfully evaluated against the CC security assurance requirements packages (base components and dependent components, see Annex B) and combining them for use, with no further development of either IT entity. The development of additional IT entities is not included (entities that have not previously been the subject of a component evaluation). The composed TOE forms a new product that can be installed and integrated into any specific environment instance that meets the objectives for the environment. This approach does not provide an alternative approach for the evaluation of components. Composition under ACO provides a composed TOE integrator a method, which can be used as an alternative to other assurance levels specified in the CC, to gain confidence in a TOE that is the combination of two or more successfully evaluated components without having to re-evaluate the composite TSF. The composed TOE integrator is referred to as “developer” throughout the ACO class, with any references to the developer of the base or dependent components clarified as such. CAPs, as defined in CC Part 5 provide an assurance scale for composed TOEs. This assurance scale is required in addition to other assurance packages, for example the EALs, because to combine components evaluated against another assurance package and gain equivalent assurance in the resulting composed TOE, all SARs shall be applied to the composed TOE. Although reuse can be made of the component TOE evaluation results, there are often additional aspects of the components that have to be considered in the composed TOE, as described in B.3. Due to the different parties involved in a composed TOE evaluation activity it is generally not possible to gain all necessary evidence about these additional aspects of the components to apply the appropriate EAL. Hence, CAPs have been defined to address the issue of combining evaluated components and gaining a meaningful result. This is discussed further in Annex B. In a composed TOE it is generally the case that one component relies on the services provided by another component. The component requiring services is termed the dependent component and the component providing the services is termed the base component. This interaction and distinct is discussed further in Annex B. It is assumed to be the case that the developer of the dependent component is supporting the composed TOE evaluation in some manner (as developer, sponsor, or just cooperating and providing the necessary evaluation evidence from the dependent component evaluation) The ACO components included in the CAP assurance packages should not be used as augmentations for component TOE evaluations, as this would provide no meaningful assurance for the component. The families within the ACO class interact in a similar manner to the ADV, ATE and AVA classes in a component TOE evaluation and hence leverage from the specification of requirements from those classes where applicable. There are however a few items specific to composed TOE evaluations. To determine how the components interact and identify any deviations from the evaluations of the components, the dependencies that the dependent component has upon the underlying base component are identified (ACO_REL). This reliance on the base component is specified in terms of the interfaces through which the dependent component makes calls for services in support of the dependent component SFRs. The interfaces, and at higher levels the supporting behaviour, provided by the base component in response to those service requests are analysed in ACO_DEV. The ACO_DEV family is based on the ADV_TDS family, as at the simplest level the TSF of each component can be viewed as a subsystem of the composed TOE, with additional portions of each component seen as additional subsystems. Therefore, the interfaces between the components are seen as interactions between subsystems in a component TOE evaluation. It is possible that the interfaces and supporting behaviour descriptions provided for ACO_DEV are incomplete. This is determined during the conduct of ACO_COR. The ACO_COR family takes the outputs of ACO_REL and ACO_DEV and determines whether the components are being used in their evaluated configuration and identifies where any specifications are incomplete, which are November 2022 CC:2022 Page 163 of 211 then identified as inputs into testing (ACO_CTT) and vulnerability analysis (ACO_VUL) activities of the composed TOE. Testing of the composed TOE is performed to determine that the composed TOE exhibits the expected behaviour as determined by the composed TOE SFRs, and at higher levels demonstrates the compatibility of the interfaces between the components of the composed TOE. The vulnerability analysis of the composed TOE leverages from the outputs of the vulnerability analysis of the component evaluations. The composed TOE vulnerability analysis considers any residual vulnerabilities from the component evaluations to determine that the residual vulnerabilities are not applicable to the composed TOE. A search of publicly available information relating to the components is also performed to identify any issues reported in the components since the completion of the respective evaluations. The interaction between the ACO families is depicted in Figure 14 below. This shows by solid arrowed lines where the evidence and understanding gained in one family feeds into the next activity and the dashed arrows identify where an activity explicitly traces back to the composed TOE SFRs, as described above. Further discussion of the definition and interactions within composed TOEs is provided in Annex B.