---
Acronym: ALC
Name: Life-cycle support
active: true
applicationNotes: ''
derived: false
level: 1.5
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: Chm9BfDWV6EUyF3sHA9fkRH_GMxUfwoRybqliuepgzo=
---

# ALC Life-cycle support

Life-cycle support is an aspect of establishing appropriate security controls in the development, production, delivery and maintenance of the TOE. Confidence in the correspondence between the TOE security requirements and the TOE is greater if security analysis and the production of the evidence are done on a regular basis as an integral part of the development, production, delivery and maintenance activities. During the life-cycle of the TOE it is distinguished whether the TOE is under the responsibility of the TOE developer or the user rather than whether it is located in the development or the user environment. The point of transition is when the TOE is accepted by the user. User in this context relates to the end-user as well as product- and system integrators. The ALC class consists of nine families: — Development Life-cycle definition (ALC_LCD) provides requirements for the developer’s description of the life-cycle model used in the development, production, delivery and maintenance life-cycle of the TOE; — CM capabilities (ALC_CMC) provides requirements for the management of the configuration items; — CM scope (ALC_CMS) requires a minimum set of configuration items to be managed in the defined way; — Developer environment security (ALC_DVS) is concerned with the developer´s physical, logical, procedural, personnel, and other security controls; — Tools and techniques (ALC_TAT) provides requirements for the development tools and implementation standards used by the developer; — Flaw remediation (ALC_FLR) provides requirements for the handling of security flaws; — Delivery (ALC_DEL) provides requirements for the procedures used for the delivery of the TOE to the downstream user. Delivery processes occurring during the development of the TOE are denoted rather as transfers, and are handled in the context of integration and acceptance procedures in other families of this class; — ALC_TDA is concerned with the generation of certain artefacts during the development process; — ALC_COMP is concerned with the integration of composition parts and a consistency check of delivery procedures. Throughout this class, development and related terms (developer, develop) are meant in the more general sense to comprise development and production, whereas production specifically means the process of transforming the implementation representation into the final TOE.