---
Acronym: ADV
Name: Development
active: true
applicationNotes: ''
derived: false
level: 1.3
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: FVdC5ZqZoDSQtM-3hwg9Hkk6n_kZPzkOUfmU0Im3vYE=
---

# ADV Development

The requirements of the Development class provide information about the TOE. The knowledge obtained by this information is used as the basis for conducting vulnerability analysis and testing upon the TOE, as described in the AVA and ATE classes. The Development class encompasses seven families of requirements for structuring and representing the TSF at various levels and varying forms of abstraction. These families include: — requirements for the description (at the various levels of abstraction) of the design and implementation of the SFRs (ADV_FSP, ADV_TDS, ADV_IMP and ADV_COMP). — requirements for the description of the architecture-oriented features of domain separation, TSF self-protection and non-bypassability of the security functionality (ADV_ARC). — requirements for a security policy model and for correspondence mappings between security policy model and the functional specification (ADV_SPM). — requirements on the internal structure of the TSF, which covers aspects such as modularity, layering, and minimization of complexity (ADV_INT). When documenting the security functionality of a TOE, there are two properties that need to be demonstrated. The first property is that the security functionality works correctly, i.e. it performs as specified. The second property, and one that is arguably harder to demonstrate, is that the TOE cannot be used in a way such that the security functionality can be corrupted or bypassed. These two properties require somewhat different approaches in analysis, and so the families in ADV are structured to support these different approaches. The families Functional specification (ADV_FSP), TOE design (ADV_TDS), Implementation representation (ADV_IMP), and Security policy modelling (ADV_SPM) deal with the first property: the specification of the security functionality. The families Security Architecture (ADV_ARC) and TSF internals (ADV_INT) deal with the second property: the specification of the design of the TOE demonstrating the security functionality cannot be corrupted or bypassed. It should be noted that both properties need to be realized: the more confidence one has that the properties are satisfied, the more trustworthy the TOE is. The TSF of a composite product are represented at various levels of abstraction in the families of the development class ADV. The family Composite design compliance (ADV_COMP) determines whether the requirements on the dependent component, imposed by the related base componen, are fulfilled in a composite product. Due to the distribution of the TSF of a composite product to various levels in the families of the class ADV, this family is not represented in Figure 7. The components in the families are designed so that more assurance can be gained as the components hierarchically increase. The paradigm for the families targeted at the first property is one of design decomposition. At the highest level, there is a functional specification of the TSF in terms of its interfaces (describing what the TSF does in terms of requests to the TSF for services and resulting responses), decomposing the TSF into smaller units (dependent on the assurance desired and the complexity of the TOE) and describing how the TSF accomplishes its functions (to a level of detail commensurate with the assurance level), and showing the implementation of the TSF. A formal model of the security behaviour also may be given. All levels of decomposition are used in determining the completeness and accuracy of all other levels, ensuring that the levels are mutually supportive. The requirements for the various TSF representations are separated into different families, to allow the PP/ST author to specify which TSF representations are required. The level chosen will dictate the assurance desired/gained. Figure 7 indicates the relationships among the various TSF representations of the ADV class, as well as their relationships with other classes. As the figure indicates, the APE and ASE classes define the requirements for the correspondence between the SFRs and the security objectives for the TOE. Class ASE also defines requirements for the correspondence between both the security objectives and SFRs, and for the TOE summary specification which explains how the TOE meets its SFRs. The activities of ALC_CMC.5.2E include the verification that the TSF that is tested under the ATE and AVA classes is in fact the one described by all of the ADV decomposition levels. The requirements for all other correspondence shown in Figure 7 are defined in the ADV class for the TOE. The Security policy modelling (ADV_SPM) family defines the requirements for formally modelling selected SFRs and providing correspondence between the functional specification and the formal model. Each assurance family specific to a TSF representation (i.e. Functional specification (ADV_FSP), TOE design (ADV_TDS) and Implementation representation (ADV_IMP)) defines requirements relating that TSF representation to the SFRs. All decompositions must accurately reflect all other decompositions (i.e. be mutually supportive); the developer supplies the tracings in the last .C elements of the components. Assurance relating to this factor is obtained during the analysis for each of the levels of decomposition by referring to other levels of decomposition (in a recursive fashion) while the analysis of a particular level of decomposition is being performed; the evaluator verifies the correspondence as part of the second E element. The understanding gained from these levels of decomposition form the basis of the functional and penetration testing efforts. The ADV_INT family is not represented in this figure, as it is related to the internal structure of the TSF, and is only indirectly related to the process of refinement of the TSF representations. Similarly, the ADV_ARC family is not represented in the figure because it relates to the architectural soundness, rather than representation, of the TSF. Both ADV_INT and ADV_ARC relate to the analysis of the property that the TOE cannot be made to circumvent or corrupt its security functionality. The TOE security functionality (TSF) consists of all parts of the TOE that shall be relied upon for enforcement of the SFRs. The TSF includes both functionality that directly enforces the SFRs, as well as functionality that, while not directly enforcing the SFRs, contributes to their enforcement in a more indirect manner, including functionality with the capability to cause the SFRs to be violated. This includes portions of the TOE that are invoked on start-up that are responsible for putting the TSF into its initial secure state. Several important concepts were used in the development of the components of the ADV families. These concepts, while introduced briefly here, are explained more fully in the application notes for the families. One over-riding notion is that, as more information becomes available, greater assurance can be obtained that the security functionality a) is correctly implemented; b) cannot be corrupted; and c) cannot be bypassed. This is done through the verification that the documentation is correct and consistent with other documentation, and by providing information that can be used to ensure that the testing activities (both functional and penetration testing) are comprehensive. This is reflected in the levelling of the components of the families. In general, components are levelled based on the amount of information that is to be provided (and subsequently analysed). While not true for all TOEs, it is generally the case that the TSF is sufficiently complex that there are portions of the TSF that deserve more intense examination than other portions of the TSF. Determining those portions is unfortunately somewhat subjective, thus terminology and components have been defined such that as the level of assurance increases, the responsibility for determining what portions of the TSF need to be examined in detail shifts from the developer to the evaluator. To aid in expressing this concept, the following terminology is introduced. It should be noted that in the families of the class, this terminology is used when expressing SFR-related portions of the TOE (i.e. elements and work units embodied in the Functional specification (ADV_FSP), TOE design (ADV_TDS), and Implementation representation (ADV_IMP) families). While the general concept (that some portions of the TOE are more interesting than others) applies to other families, the criteria are expressed differently in order to obtain the assurance required. All portions of the TSF are security relevant, meaning that they must preserve the security of the TOE as expressed by the SFRs and requirements for domain separation and non-bypassability. One aspect of security relevance is the degree to which a portion of the TSF enforces a security requirement. Since different portions of the TOE play different roles (or no apparent role at all) in enforcing security requirements, this creates a continuum of SFR relevance: at one end of this continuum are portions of the TOE that are termed SFR-enforcing. Such portions play a direct role in implementing any SFR on the TOE. Such SFRs refer to any functionality provided by one of the SFRs contained in the ST. It should be noted that the definition of plays a role in for SFR-enforcing functionality is impossible to express quantitatively. For example, in the implementation of a Discretionary Access Control (DAC) mechanism, a very narrow view of SFR-enforcing can be the several lines of code that actually perform the check of a subject´s attributes against the object´s attributes. A broader view would include the software entity (e.g. C function) that contained the several lines of code. A broader view still would include callers of the C function, since they would be responsible for enforcing the decision returned by the attribute check. A still broader view would include any code in the call tree (or programming equivalent for the implementation language used) for that C function (e.g. a sort function that sorted access control list entries in a first-match algorithm implementation). At some point, the component is not so much enforcing the security policy but rather plays a supporting role; such components are termed SFR supporting. One of the characteristics of SFR-supporting functionality is that it is trusted to preserve the correctness of the SFR implementation by operating without error. Such functionality may be depended on by SFR-enforcing functionality, but the dependence is generally at a functional level; for example, memory management, buffer management, etc. Further down on the security relevance continuum is functionality termed SFR non-interfering. Such functionality has no role in implementing the SFRs and is likely part of the TSF because of its environment; for example, any code running in a privileged hardware mode on an operating system. It needs to be considered part of the TSF because, if compromised (or replaced by malicious code), it can compromise the correct operation of an SFR by virtue of its operating in the privileged hardware mode. An example of SFR non-interfering functionality can be a set of mathematical floating point operations implemented in kernel mode for speed considerations. The architecture family [Security Architecture (ADV_ARC)] provides for requirements and analysis of the TOE based on properties of domain separation, self-protection, and non-bypassability. These properties relate to the SFRs in that, if these properties are not present, it will likely lead to the failure of mechanisms implementing SFRs. Functionality and design relating to these properties is not considered a part of the continuum described above, but instead is treated separately due to its fundamentally different nature and analysis requirements. The difference in analysis of the implementation of SFRs (SFR-enforcing and SFR-supporting functionality) and the implementation of somewhat fundamental security properties of the TOE, which include the initialisation, self-protection, and non-bypassability concerns, is that the SFR-related functionality is more or less directly visible and relatively easy to test, while the above-mentioned properties require varying degrees of analysis on a much broader set of functionality. Further, the depth of analysis for such properties will vary depending on the design of the TOE. The ADV families are constructed to address this by a separate family [Security Architecture (ADV_ARC)] devoted to analysis of the initialisation, self-protection, and non-bypassability requirements, while the other families are concerned with analysis of the functionality supporting SFRs. Even in cases where different descriptions are necessary for the multiple levels of abstraction, it is not absolutely necessary for each and every TSF representation to be in a separate document. Indeed, it may be the case that a single document meets the documentation requirements for more than one TSF representation, since it is the information about each of these TSF representations that is required, rather than the resulting document structure. In cases where multiple TSF representations are combined within a single document, the developer should indicate which portions of the documents meet which requirements. Three types of specification style are mandated by this class: informal, semiformal and formal. The functional specification and TOE design documentation are always written in either informal or semiformal style. A semiformal style reduces the ambiguity in these documents over an informal presentation. A formal specification may also be required in addition to the semi-formal presentation; the value is that a description of the TSF in more than one way will add increased assurance that the TSF has been completely and accurately specified. An informal specification is written as prose in natural language. Natural language is used here as meaning communication in any commonly spoken tongue (e.g. Spanish, German, French, English, Dutch). An informal specification is not subject to any notational or special restrictions other than those required as ordinary conventions for that language (e.g. grammar and syntax). While no notational restrictions apply, the informal specification is also required to provide defined meanings for terms that are used in a context other than that accepted by normal usage. The difference between semiformal and informal documents is only a matter of formatting or presentation: a semiformal notation includes, e.g. an explicit glossary of terms, a standardised presentation format. A semiformal specification is written to a standard presentation template. The presentation should use terms consistently if written in a natural language. The presentation may also use more structured languages/diagrams (e.g. data-flow diagrams, state transition diagrams, entity-relationship diagrams, data structure diagrams, and process or program structure diagrams). Whether based on diagrams or natural language, a set of conventions must be used in the presentation. The glossary explicitly identifies the words that are being used in a precise and constant manner; similarly, the standardised format implies that extreme care has been taken in methodically preparing the document in a manner that maximises clarity. It should be noted that fundamentally different portions of the TSF may have different semiformal notation conventions and presentation styles (as long as the number of different “semiformal notations” is small); this still conforms to the concept of a semiformal presentation. A formal specification is written in a notation based upon well-established mathematical concepts and is typically accompanied by supporting explanatory (informal) prose. These mathematical concepts are used to define the syntax and semantics of the notation and the proof rules that support logical reasoning. The syntactic and semantic rules supporting a formal notation should define how to recognize constructs unambiguously and determine their meaning. There needs to be evidence that it is impossible to derive contradictions, and all rules supporting the notation need to be defined or referenced. In case of a multi-assurance evaluation the requirements for the description (at the various levels of abstraction) of the design and implementation of the SFRs (ADV_FSP, ADV_TDS, ADV_IMP and ADV_COMP) will be presented for the sub-TSF of the TOE. The architecture family (Security Architecture (ADV_ARC)) provides for requirements and analysis of the TOE based on properties of domain separation, self-protection, and non-bypassability which also may hold for boundaries between the sub-TSF.