---
Acronym: ATE
Name: Tests
active: true
applicationNotes: ''
derived: false
level: 1.6
links:
- CC-001: fLNVEH99O1ekswizPgJXxpV_N4PE8974h7DMBz0CkoE=
normative: true
ref: ''
reviewed: 9OaAHO2sUJOfgDrGAn2rukC6hzADZ50Bph9A7RoyKlQ=
---

# ATE Tests

The class “Tests” encompasses five families: Coverage (ATE_COV), Depth (ATE_DPT), Independent testing (ATE_IND) (i.e. functional testing performed by evaluators), Functional tests (ATE_FUN) and Composite functional testing (ATE_COMP). Testing provides assurance that the TSF behaves as described (in the functional specification, TOE design, implementation representation, and allows straightforward traceability of SFR in test scenario). The emphasis in this class is on confirmation that the TSF operates according to its design descriptions. This class does not address penetration testing, which is based upon an analysis of the TSF that specifically seeks to identify vulnerabilities in the design and implementation of the TSF. Penetration testing is addressed separately as an aspect of vulnerability assessment in the AVA: Vulnerability assessment class. The ATE: Tests class separates testing into developer testing and evaluator testing. The Coverage (ATE_COV), and Depth (ATE_DPT) families address the completeness of developer testing. Coverage (ATE_COV) addresses the rigour with which the functional specification is tested; Depth (ATE_DPT) addresses whether testing against other design descriptions (security architecture, TOE design, and implementation representation) is required. Functional tests (ATE_FUN) addresses the performing of the tests by the developer and how this testing should be documented. Finally, Independent testing (ATE_IND) then addresses evaluator testing: whether the evaluator should repeat part or all of the developer testing and how much independent testing the evaluator should do. Composite functional testing (ATE_COMP) determines whether the composite product as a whole exhibits the properties necessary to satisfy the functional requirements of its ST.